Compliance checklist

* The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric 
    Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)

    The FERC-NERC regulation applies to organizations that work with electricity or that are involved with the U.S. and North American power grid. Organizations have an obligation to prepare for, mitigate, and report any potential security incident that can negatively affect the power grid. Organizations are legally required to adhere to the Critical Infrastructure Protection Reliability Standards (CIP) defined by the FERC. 
    Explanation: Botium is has a physical location in the US, making it an electricity end-user and subject to NERC.
* General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
    GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. citizens’ data and their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory. Additionally, if a breach occurs and a E.U. citizen’s data is compromised, they must be informed within 72 hours of the incident.
    Explanation: Although Botium is US-based, it has users/customers from the EU which means that it is required to comply with EU GDPR.
* Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
    PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. 
    Explanation: Botium accepts direct online payment, which involves accepting, storing, processing and transmitting credit card information, which actions are governed by PCI-DSS.
* The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
    HIPAA is a federal law established in 1996 to protect U.S. patients' health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. Organizations have a legal obligation to inform patients of a breach. 
    Explanation: Botium is not in the business of healthcare, neither collecting nor accessing patient information.
* System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)
    The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational levels. They are used to assess an organization’s financial compliance and levels of risk. They also cover confidentiality, privacy, integrity, availability, security, and overall data safety. Control failures in these areas can lead to fraud.
    Explanation: Botium’s IT department is responsible for end-user equipment and remote workstations, as well as the database, data center and data retention.
